(StarCraft) After Valerian Mengsk rose to power, the practice of resocializing criminals and forcing them to serve as marines was outlawed.  The Marine Corp is now made up of volunteers and patriots of the Dominion.
(StarCraft) After the End War, Abathur created a new species of Zerg, the chitha, to disrupt the truce formed between the Daelaam, the Dominion, and the Zerg Swarm.
(StarCraft) The Executor that the player controls in Episode III of the original StarCraft is Artanis.  It is believed that Selendis is the Executor in Episode IV.
(StarCraft) Despite Terrans being physically inferior to the Protoss and the Zerg, they are very close to taking the next evolutionary step to becoming a formidable psychic power.
(StarCraft) Protoss get their nutrients from the electromagnetic spectrum in a process similar to photosynthesis.  As Rohana once said, "Orifices are gross."
(StarCraft) While the vast majority of Zerg creatures are horrific facsimilies of species assimilated by the swarm, larva are the closest representation of the original Zerg strain.
(StarCraft) Despite the name, the C-14 impaler guass rifle is only guass assisted; the bullets are still propelled via gunpowder.
(StarCraft) Jim Raynor had a son before the Great War named Johnny.  Johnny was psionically gifted, and the Confederacy demanded that Jim hand him over to their care.  Officially, Johnny died in a shuttle crash en route to the Core Worlds of the Confederacy, however there is a small chance that Johnny actually became a ghost.
(StarCraft) When the first Terrans arrived in the Koprulu sector via supercarriers from Earth, they landed on three planets that would become the capitals for the three major Terran factions.  The Confederacy was founded on Tarsonis, the Kel-Morian Combine on Moria, and the Umojan Protectorate on Umoja.
(StarCraft) There are conflicting sources on where the Thor was designed.  In Wings of Liberty, Rory Swann developed the first Thors after studying "that piece of crap" Odin.  However in Thundergod, a short story that takes place before the Second Great War, the Thor was already in production by the Dominion.
(StarCraft) Cerberus was a Confederate unit that operated to purge Chau Sara from the Zerg (or "Xenomorphs" as they were called then).  They remained loyal to the Dominion until Arcturus Mengsk's death, where they went rogue.  They have resurfaced recently with a Zerg army that they control based on their research into neural resocialization.
(StarCraft) During the Fall of Aiur, the Protoss lost the temple that they used to create dragoons, thus losing the ability to create them.  The remaining dragoons in service were given hardened shields and two phase disruptors to improve their survivability.  When the Khalai survivors took control of the Spear of Adun, there was a compliment of dragoons held in stasis within the massive hull.
(StarCraft) Hydralisks have 4,000 muscles, many of them are used to fire their spines fast enough to pierce neosteel plating and to strike with their scythe-like appendages.
(StarCraft) Minerals are used by the Protoss and Terrans to create armor plating.  The Zerg use the crystals to harden their carapaces during gestation.
(StarCraft) Vespene has a large variety of uses in the Koprulu sector.  Terrans use it for fuel in their war engines, Protoss use it in a similar method to Terrans, and the Zerg use it for nourishment due to its high-caloric capacity.
(StarCraft) The majority of Protoss machines were not originally developed for war.  For example, the reaver was a construction robot before it was repurposed to fire scarabs.  Currently the only robotic units designed to be war machines are the colossus (developed during the Kalathi Intercession) and the disruptor.
(StarCraft) There are several different classes of Battlecruisers that are currently used.  Behemoth-class cruisers were the most prevalent in the Great War and Brood War, and were even used by some outlying Dominion colonies after the End War.  Minotaur-class cruisers were used mostly during the Second Great War and had many improvements over the Behemoth.  The Dominion Special Forces use Moirai-class battlecruisers, while dignitaries and high ranking admirals use the enormous Gorgon-class cruisers.
(StarCraft) Co-Op missions are not cannon.  Stop trying to make it fit into cannon you neanderthals.
(StarCraft) The current model of siege tanks that many Terrans use throughout the Koprulu sector are the Crucio Siege Tank, which outperforms the old Arclite model in every way.  In order to improve their own military, the Umojan Protectorate have developed the Imperio Siege Tank, which matches up well with the Crucio.  Outside of the major factions, mercenaries modify Crucio tanks in order to improve their performance.
(StarCraft) While the Knights of Tyrador have flashy weaponry, it is really all for show.  Much of their arsenal are older weapons with finishes that make them look asthetically pleasing.  Cyclones launch fireworks instead of missiles, the banshee pilots are undertrained, and medivac crews are used to saving tourists who get stranded in the oceans of Tyrador.  Even the marines signed up knowing that they were going to be performing a cushy security job on a resort world.  This left the Knights unprepared for the Cerberus invasion.
(Star Wars) Have you ever wondered why Mos Eisley is considered a "wretched hive of scum and villainy"?  The city does not invest well in their municipality system, and the few officers of the law were easy to bribe.
(StarCraft) The precursor to the viking was the wyrm.  While the viking could quickly transform between air/space superiority fighter and ground assault mode, the wyrm sluggishly transitioned between the two.  Additionally, the wyrm also had less resilient armor, but used similar armaments.
(StarCraft) Some species of critters can be found on multiple worlds.  For example, ursadons can be found on Kaldir and Braxis, and ursadaks can be found on Tarsonis and Bel'Shir.  Some of these critters are found on different worlds due to Xel'Naga tampering with the ecosystems of planets.  Terrans have also begun to experiment with seeding worlds with different creatures.
(Warframe) The shopkeeper on board many Tenno relays, Darvo, is related to Frohd Bek, one of the most influencial members on the Corpus Board.  While Frohd considers the Tenno to be bad for business, Darvo is not above selling them wares that he liberates from the Origin System's shipping lanes.
(StarCraft) After the deinfestation of Kerrigan, the corruptor strain was believed to be lost by the Zerg, and by extension, the brood lord.  During the final stages of the Second Great War, Abathur recovered some brood lord essence and implanted it into the mutalisk.  Eventually the genetic template was recovered from ferral Zerg broods and Amon's brood.  While Kerrigan still used the mutalisk strain of brood lord up until the fall of Amon, most broodmothers preferred to morph corruptors into the flying behemoths.
(StarCraft) In the penultimate stages of the End War, a young Protoss executor was tasked with clearing out a Zerg brood that had taken a faraway world called Anaheim by storm.  Many came to watch the battle from afar, and oddly enough cheered for one side or the other to win.  While the matches were well fought, it came down to one final battle.  In the end, Executor Stats could not keep with the Serral Brood, and did what the Terrans call a "gg".
(Warframe) Excalibur was the first successful warframe created by the Orokin after the Zariman Ten Zero incident.  The Tenno affected by the accident were the first to be able to successfully use Excalibur with great success, and thus were quickly weaponized to fight the Sentients.
(Warframe) The Tenno are typically despised by the other factions.  The Corpus believes that Tenno attacks will hurt profits, the Infestation knows the true nature of the Warframes, and the Grineer know that the Tenno will keep them from completely taking over the Origin System through war.  That being said, many of the commoners hold the Tenno in high esteem due to the multitude of services and protection they provide.  They also fear them at the same time due to their incredible powers.
(StarCraft) Wranglers are Terrans with limited psionic abilities.  Their tasks include locating other psychics, whether they be enemy psionic or young humans that can be recruited into the Ghost program.  Wranglers also observe ghost agents to make sure that their psyche is still intact.
(StarCraft) Terran psionic levels are classified on a scale called the Psi Index (PI), which is on a scale from 1-10.  People with a score of 1 have no psionic powers, while 10 is a Terran with significant psionic abilities, including telekinesis.  Most ghosts have a score of 5-6.  Very few humans have a PI of 10.  Sarah Kerrigan (pre-infestation) and Nova Terra are two of the very few humans to have such a high index.
(StarCraft) Have you ever wondered why the UED's technology seems so similar to the weaponry of the Terrans in the Koprulu Sector?  Much of the Terran's technology originated from data stored on one of the supercarriers that made the voyage to the Koprulu Sector.  The Koprulu newcomers were in no position to innovate new technologies, so they used the data that was brought from Earth to create their means to survive.  While UED technology is technically more advance than what is found in the Koprulu Sector, it is all still very similar.